Add ISC access node guide (#1562)
iotaledger/iota-wiki: docs/maintain/wasp/v1.0.0-rc.6/docs/how-tos/running-an-access-node.md

---
description: How to setup an access node.
image: /img/logo/WASP_logo_dark.png
tags:
  - Smart Contracts
  - Running a node
  - ISC
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Running an ISC Access Node

> ## Setup Wasp an Hornet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set Up Wasp and Hornet
```

> First you have to [setup a normal Wasp Node](./running-a-node.md). Don't run `docker compose up` to start the docker containers yet. Continue with the following steps first:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you should [set up a  Wasp Node](./running-a-node.md) but don't run `docker compose up` to start the docker containers yet. Continue with the following steps first:
```

> ## Download the chain state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Download the Chain State
```

> You can configure how much of the state you wish to keep on your node, using the following setting: `stateManager.pruningMinStatesToKeep`. The default value is 10000 blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure how much of the state you wish to keep on your node using the following setting: `stateManager.pruningMinStatesToKeep`. The default value is 10000 blocks.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Run a Non-archive Node

```

If you wish to run a non-archive node (only keep the last N blocks), you must add `snapshots.networkPaths` to your config:

<Tabs groupId="network" queryString>
<TabItem value="shimmer" label="ShimmerEVM">

```diff docker-compose.yml
       - "--wal.path=/app/waspdb/wal"
       - "--prometheus.enabled=true"
       - "--prometheus.bindAddress=wasp:9312"
+      - "--stateManager.pruningMinStatesToKeep=10000"
+      - "--snapshots.networkPaths=https://files.shimmer.network/?prefix=wasp_snapshots/smr1prxvwqvwf7nru5q5xvh5thwg54zsm2y4wfnk6yk56hj3exxkg92mx20wl3s/"
     profiles:
       - wasp
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="shimmer_testnet" label="ShimmerEVM Testnet">

```diff docker-compose.yml
       - "--wal.path=/app/waspdb/wal"
       - "--prometheus.enabled=true"
       - "--prometheus.bindAddress=wasp:9312"
+      - "--stateManager.pruningMinStatesToKeep=10000"
+      - "--snapshots.networkPaths=https://files.testnet.shimmer.network/?prefix=wasp_snapshots/rms1ppp00k5mmd2m8my8ukkp58nd3rskw6rx8l09aj35984k74uuc5u2cywn3ex/"
     profiles:
       - wasp
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Run An Archive Node

```

If you wish to have a full archive node you need to set `stateManager.pruningMinStatesToKeep` to `0` and can remove the `snapshots.networkPaths` option. 

> You can then download the historical state(this will take a while):

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can then download the historical state using the following command (this will take a while):
```

<Tabs groupId="network" queryString>
<TabItem value="shimmer" label="ShimmerEVM">

```
wget https://files.shimmer.network/dbs/wasp/latest-wasp_chains_wal.tgz -O - | tar xzv -C data/wasp
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="shimmer_testnet" label="ShimmerEVM Testnet">

```
wget https://files.testnet.shimmer.network/dbs/wasp/latest-wasp_chains_wal.tgz -O - | tar xzv -C data/wasp
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note Disk Space

> Operating as a full archive node require a lot of disk space, we recomment at least 500Gb of free space for now, to operate without issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operating as a full archive node requires a lot of disk space. We recommend at least 500Gb of free space to operate without issues
```

:::

## Run Everything

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

> It will take a few minutes until the hornet node is synced

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will take a few minutes until the hornet node is synced.
```

You can check the sync status by following the logs with `docker logs -f hornet`, or in the web dashboard.

> ## Download a Wasp-Cli fitting your Wasp Version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Download Wasp-Cli
```

> You can download and extract Wasp-Cli with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can download and extract the Wasp-Cli that matches your Wasp version using the following command:
```

```
curl -sL https://github.com/iotaledger/wasp/releases/download/v1.0.3/wasp-cli_1.0.3_Linux_x86_64.tar.gz | tar xzv
```

## Use Wasp-Cli to obtain peering info

> cd into the newly-downloaded wasp-cli directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change directory into the newly-downloaded `wasp-cli` directory:
```

```
Please note the PubKey: 0x20a56daa0b5e86b196c37f802089a2b6007a655a12337d287f7313a214af2ec0 output.
Send it together with your Ipv4 to node operators that you want to peer with.

## Wait for the other party to peer

… wait …

## Use wasp-cli to add nodes as peers

```sh
./wasp-cli peering trust peer1 <pubkey> <URL>
./wasp-cli peering trust peer2 <pubkey> <URL>
```

## Add Chain

<Tabs groupId="network" queryString>
<TabItem value="shimmer" label="ShimmerEVM">

```sh
./wasp-cli chain add shimmer-evm smr1prxvwqvwf7nru5q5xvh5thwg54zsm2y4wfnk6yk56hj3exxkg92mx20wl3s
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="shimmer_testnet" label="ShimmerEVM Testnet">

```sh
./wasp-cli chain add shimmer-evm-testnet rms1ppp00k5mmd2m8my8ukkp58nd3rskw6rx8l09aj35984k74uuc5u2cywn3ex
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Activate

<Tabs groupId="network" queryString>
<TabItem value="shimmer" label="ShimmerEVM">

```sh
./wasp-cli chain activate --chain shimmer-evm
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="shimmer_testnet" label="ShimmerEVM Testnet">

```sh
./wasp-cli chain activate --chain shimmer-evm-testnet
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Add Peers as Access Nodes of the Chain

```sh
./wasp-cli chain access-nodes add --peers=peer1,peer2

> ```

Reviewer: Please add some text to the commands

Author: Updated

> ## Check if Wasp synced

Reviewer: https://capitalizemytitle.com/

Author: If you would just know how many titles I already had to fix :trollface:

> You can follow the progress by doing docker logs -f wasp. If you chose to create a full-archive node, this will take a long time (several minutes, maybe hours).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can follow the progress using `docker logs -f wasp`. If you chose to create a [full-archive node](#run-and-archive-node), this can take several minutes, maybe hours.
```

<Tabs groupId="network" queryString>
<TabItem value="shimmer" label="ShimmerEVM">

```sh
wget https://files.shimmer.network/dbs/wasp/latest-wasp_chains_wal.tgz -O - | tar xzv -C data/wasp
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="shimmer_testnet" label="ShimmerEVM Testnet">

```sh
wget https://files.testnet.shimmer.network/dbs/wasp/latest-wasp_chains_wal.tgz -O - | tar xzv -C data/wasp
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note Disk Space

Operating as a full archive node requires a lot of disk space. We recommend at least 500Gb of free space to operate without issues

:::

## Run Everything

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

It will take a few minutes until the hornet node is synced.

You can check the sync status by following the logs with `docker logs -f hornet`, or in the web dashboard.

## Download Wasp-Cli

You can download a Wasp-Cli that matches your Wasp version from the [Wasp releases](https://github.com/iotaledger/wasp/releases).
You can use a command like this to download the Wasp-Cli:

```sh
curl -sL https://github.com/iotaledger/wasp/releases/download/v1.0.3/wasp-cli_1.0.3_Linux_x86_64.tar.gz | tar xzv
```

> ## Use Wasp-Cli to Obtain Peering Info

Reviewer 2: This header feels like it's on the wrong level, or at least the headers below are on the wrong level. The paragraph below only describes how to `cd` into the cli directory, actually getting the peering info is described way down. Should the following headers be one level down?

Author: Yeah makes sense. I think we should actually change the header to something else. The whole section should be called setting up with wasp cli or something and everything else should be sub steps I guess. Let me commit something

Author: 603bf9390111a3dbc444e20f7939cf72462233a5 Wdyt?

## Obtain Peering Info

Get your peering info which you will need to share with your peers:

```sh
./wasp-cli peering info
```
```sh title=Output
PubKey: 0x20a56daa0b5e86b196c37f802089a2b6007a655a12337d287f7313a214af2ec0
PeeringURL: 0.0.0.0:4000
```

Please note the PubKey: 0x20a56daa0b5e86b196c37f802089a2b6007a655a12337d287f7313a214af2ec0 output.
Send it together with your domain/IP to node operators that you want to peer with.

## Wait for the other party to peer

Wait until peer added you as trusted and access peer.

## Use wasp-cli to add nodes as peers

Now you can add your peer as trusted peer.

```sh
./wasp-cli peering trust peer1 <pubkey> <URL>:<PORT>
./wasp-cli peering trust peer2 <pubkey> <URL>:<PORT>
```

## Add Chain

Add the chain with its chain id and name:

<Tabs groupId="network" queryString>
<TabItem value="shimmer" label="ShimmerEVM">

```sh
./wasp-cli chain add shimmer-evm smr1prxvwqvwf7nru5q5xvh5thwg54zsm2y4wfnk6yk56hj3exxkg92mx20wl3s
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="shimmer_testnet" label="ShimmerEVM Testnet">

```sh
./wasp-cli chain add shimmer-evm-testnet rms1ppp00k5mmd2m8my8ukkp58nd3rskw6rx8l09aj35984k74uuc5u2cywn3ex
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Activate

> Actiave the chain using its name:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Activate the chain using its name:
```
